{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldItalicMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-ItalicMT;\f4\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Instructions to authors \

\fs24  \
\pard\pardeftab708\qj

\f1\b \cf0 \
Pediatria
\f0\b0  
\f1\b (S\'8bo Paulo
\fs22 )
\f0\b0  is a specialized journal, open to national and international contributions. Pediatria (S\'8bo Paulo) has the objective of publishing scientific information for medical development, specifically in Pediatrics, that has not previously been published nor intended to be divulged\cf2  \cf0 elsewhere. \
 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 1. Copyright\

\f0\b0\fs22 The articles published become the journal\'d5s property and copyright, consequently translation and partial or total reproduction in other journals is forbidden. Statements and opinions expressed in the articles are those of the authors. Articles with a commercial objective will not be accepted.\
\pard\pardeftab708\qj

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
2. Section and category of articles\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\fs22 \cf0 Original Articles\
\pard\pardeftab708\li10\ri170\qj

\f0\b0 \cf0       Medical Teaching\
      Clinical Research\
      Scientific Research\
      Special Article\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b \cf0    b)  Reviews and Essays\
   c)  Case Reports\
   d)  Multiprofessional Health Team Articles\
   e)  Brief Communications\
   f)  Letters to the Editor  \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0   \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b\fs22 \cf0   a)
\fs24   
\f2\i\fs22 Original articles
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri141\qj

\f3\b0\fs22 \cf0    
\f0\i0 Original articles should contain original research results. They must include Introduction, Methods and/or Casuistic, Results, Discussion and Conclusions. 
\f2\i\b Introduction
\f0\i0\b0 : establishes the study objective relative to the bibliography and outlines the current state of knowledge regarding the theme. 
\f2\i\b Methods and/or Casuistic
\f0\i0\b0 : describes the procedures, presents the variables, determines and characterizes the population and the sample size, the techniques and equipment employed, describes all methods including statistical analysis. 
\f2\i\b Results
\f0\i0\b0 : presents data, supported inclusive by tables and figures.  Results are only described, without commentaries. 
\f2\i\b Discussion
\f0\i0\b0 : Analyses and compares the results with data in the literature, and evaluates the impact of the findings on pediatric scientific and clinical progress. This section should not merely repeat results. Personal or restrictedly published communications should be avoided as arguments or proof. 
\f2\i\b Conclusions
\f0\i0\b0 : must be sustained by the preceding data and discussion. \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0 Original articles must not exceed 4000 words (10 to 20 pages), excluding tables, figures and references. Tables and figures should be limited to 5. Figures should not merely repeat tabulated data. References are accepted up to a maximum of 30.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b\fs22 \cf0 b)  
\f2\i Reviews and Essays\
Reviews
\f0\i0\b0  are critical and systematic evaluations of a subject. They must  contain Objectives, Database sources, Criteria adopted, Data obtained, Conclusions and implications. They must not exceed 5000 words (25 pages). References are limited to 60.\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f2\i\b \cf0 Essays
\f0\i0\b0  are theoretical studies about a given topic, including the author\'d5s opinions. They should contain between 2000 - 4000 words (10 - 20 pages). References are accepted up to a maximum of 30. \
\

\f2\i\b Case reports\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0\b0 \cf0 Should include: Introduction, Case description, Discussion and Conclusions. They must not exceed 600 words (3 pages), 3 tables or figures, 10 references and 5 authors.\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f2\i\b \cf0 Multiprofessional health team articles\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0\b0 \cf0 Should exhibit the same systematization for each category in which the paper is included.\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f2\i\b \cf0 e) Brief communications \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0\b0 \cf0 Are short reports with unpublished and/or outstanding data. The article may present preliminary results. It must not exceed 1600 words (4 - 8 pages), excluding tables, figures and references. There should be no more than one table or figure and up to 5 references. \
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f2\i\b \cf0 f) Letters to the Editor\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0\b0 \cf0 Contains opinions about previous publications and/or reports on significant pediatric scientific findings. The letter should not exceed 600 words and 5 references.  \
\

\f1\b\fs28 3. Process of Articles Acceptance\

\f0\b0\fs22 Acceptance of the article is based upon significance of the contribution to scientific knowledge and format. The evaluation is performed by the Scientific Editor and two peer-reviews. Anonymity is guaranteed during the evaluation process.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 4. Presentation of articles \

\f0\b0\fs22 The articles must be prepared according to the \'d2Instructions to authors\'d3 of 
\f1\b Pediatria (S\'8bo Paulo)
\f0\b0 \
The articles must be sent to Pediatria (S\'8bo Paulo) with a 
\f1\b covering letter
\f0\b0  signed by all authors which confirms that: 1) the article is original and has never been published; if accepted it will not be submitted elsewhere; 2) the authors approved  the final version; 3) the research was approved by the Committee on Ethics at the author\'d5s institution; and 4) the copyrights concerning the manuscript are transferred to Pediatria (S\'8bo Paulo) in case of publication. \
The articles must be typed on one side of each page with size 12 letters, double spaced, and standard-size white paper with 3 cm of margins. The pages should be sequentially numbered from the title page. 
\f1\b Each manuscript should be submitted with the original and 3 copies, 
\f0\b0 including figures and tables, and a 3 \uc0\u189 \'d3 diskette, software MS Word for Windows 95/97 for text, Excel 95/97 for graphics and JPEG for photographs.
\fs24  \

\fs22 The manuscript must be based on \'d2Section and category of articles\'d3, and may be written in Portuguese, English or Spanish.\
The
\f1\b  
\f2\i title page
\f0\i0\b0  should contain:\
\pard\tx425\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0   A brief but informative title in Portuguese, English and Spanish;\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0 Section to be categorized; \
Running title, maximum \'d0 40 characters;\
The full name of each author according to participation and an index number referring to academic titles; \
Only the highest academic title of each author should be given;\
Name and address of institution;\
Name, address, telephone, fax number and e-mail of the author responsible for correspondence;\
Financial support (organization name, process number);\
If based on a thesis: title, year, institution;\
If presented in a scientific meeting: event name, place, year and pages of the abstract.\
\pard\pardeftab708\li150\ri170\qj

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f2\i\b\fs22 \cf0 Abstracts:
\f0\i0\b0  must be presented in 
\f1\b Portuguese, English and Spanish
\f0\b0  (Resumo, Abstract, Resumen), \
\pard\tx0\pardeftab708\li360\ri170\qj
\cf0 followed by the
\f2\i\b  
\f0\i0\b0 respective translated title. All three language abstracts must be identical in content, with a maximum of 250 words and presented in the structured format according each category:\
\pard\pardeftab708\li340\fi-340\ri170\qj

\f3\i \cf0       
\f2\b Original Articles
\f0\i0\b0 : 
\f3\i Objective, Methods or Casuistic and Methods, Results, Conclusions   \
      
\f2\b Reviews and Essays
\f3\b0 : Objective, Data Source, Data Synthesis, Conclusions and/or Commentaries \
      
\f2\b Cases Report
\f3\b0 : Objective, Description, Conclusions.
\f1\i0\b \
\pard\pardeftab708\li282\fi-282\ri170\qj

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f2\i\b \cf0 Key-words
\f1\i0 :
\f0\b0  From 3 to 10 should be given, obtained from the MEDLINE database/Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) and included at the end of the abstract in each language.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f2\i \cf0 Acknowledgements
\f1\i0 :
\f0\b0  may be extended
\f2\i\b  
\f0\i0\b0 to persons that collaborated with the research such as scientific adviser, critical review, data collection, etc. Institutions, financial and material support may also be included.
\f3\i \
\pard\pardeftab708\li364\fi-364\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0  i)
\f2\i\b 	References
\f1\i0 :  
\f0\b0 These should be numbered consecutively in the order in which they are first mentioned in the text.\
\pard\pardeftab708\li282\ri170\qj

\f1\b \cf0  The journals\'d5 title 
\f0\b0 must be presented in abbreviated format, according to Index Medicus/MEDLINE. \

\f1\b  
\f0\b0 All authors must be listed up to a limit of 6, after which use et al.  \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0       
\f1\b Articles accepted for publication 
\f0\b0 may be completely cited in the list of References, except for the \
      journal pages, and should include the expression [In press]. \
      
\f1\b Personal communications, correspondence and unpublished data
\f0\b0  should not be included in the \
      list of References. Whenever important, these citations could be mentioned as a footnote followed by \
      [Unpublished results].\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b \cf0 Examples:\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f3\i\b0 \cf0 Articles in journals
\f0\i0  \
Dar\'8e J\'9cnior S, Yoshimoto CE, Vaz FAC.  O uso da eritropoetina recombinante humana na \
     anemia da prematuridade.  Pediatria (S\'8bo Paulo)  2000;22:130-42.\
\
Vieira GO, Glisser M, Ara\'9cjo SPT, Sales AN.  Indicadores do aleitamento materno na cidade de \
     Feira de Santana, Bahia.  J Pediatr (Rio de Janeiro) 1998;74:11-6. \
\
Samet JH, Libman H, Steger KA, Dhawan R, Chen J, Shevitz AH,  et al.  Compliance with \
     zidovudine therapy in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type I: cross-\
     sectional study in a municipal hospital clinic.  Am J Med  1992;495-502.\

\f3\i \
Textbooks\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0 Naisman HA, Kerr GR.  Fetal growth and development.  3\super rd\nosupersub  ed.  New York: McGrow-Hill; 1970. \
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f3\i \cf0 Book chapters\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0 Ogra PL, Rassin DK.  Human breast milk.  In:  Remington JS, Klein JO, editors.  Infectious diseases of the fetus and newborn infant.  4\super th\nosupersub  ed.  Philadelphia: Mosby; 1995.  p.108-39.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f3\i \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0 Ajuriaguerra J.  Manual de psiquiatria infantil.  2\strike \'bb\strike0\striked0  ed.  Barcelona: Toray-Masson; 1975.\
\pard\pardeftab708\li360\ri170\qj
\cf0 p.13-8: Historia e fuentes de la psiquiatria infantil. \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0  \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f3\i \cf0 Dissertations and theses \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0 Kiss MHB.  Diagn\'97stico diferencial das hiperbilirrubinemias diretas nos primeiros quatro meses de vida.  [Tese de Doutorado].  S\'8bo Paulo: Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de S\'8bo Paulo; 1982.  2v.\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f3\i \cf0 Papers presented in event \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0 House AK, Levin E.  Immune response in patients with carcinoma of the colon-rectum and \
      stomach.  In: 12\strike \'bc\strike0\striked0  Congreso Internacional del Cancer; 1978; Buenos Aires, Argentina.  v.1,\
      p.135. \
 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f3\i \cf0 Events  
\f0\i0 \

\f3\i 9.   
\f0\i0 6\strike \'bc\strike0\striked0  Congresso Brasileiro de Neurologia; 1984; Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.\
  
\f3\i \
Electronic documents (articles)\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0  Lebr\'8bo ML.  Determinantes da morbidade hospitalar em regi\'8bo do Estado de S\'8bo Paulo\
      (Brasil).  Rev Sa\'9cde P\'9cblica  [periodic on line]  1999;33(1).  Available from: \
       HYPERLINK URL:http://www.fsp.usp.br/~rsp \cf3 \ul \ulc3 URL:http://www.fsp.usp.br/~rsp\cf0 \ulnone .   [May 23 1999].\
\pard\tx425\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\tx425\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f3\i \cf0 \
\
Electronic documents (textbooks, monographs, dictionaries)\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\i0 \cf0 11.
\f3\i  
\f0\i0 Oxford English dictionary computer file: on compact disc.  2\super nd\nosupersub  ed.  Oxford: University Press;\
(CD-ROM).\
\pard\tx141\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0 \
12. Colier L, Balows A, Sussman M.  Topley and Wilson\'d5s microbiology and microbial infections.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj
\cf0       9\super th  \nosupersub ed.  London: Arnold; 1998.  (CD-ROM).\
   \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b \cf0 Identification of references
\f0\b0  in the text, tables and figures should be through Arabic numerals, corresponding to the respective numbering in the list of references. \sub \

\f1\b \nosupersub \
Citation of authors in the text 
\f0\b0 should be avoided, except in the case of a pioneer. \

\f1\b 1)
\f0\b0  The reference number should be inserted at the end of the sentence, e.g.: Studies show that birth weight can be utilized as a socioeconomic indicator\super 2,5,9-11 \sub . \

\f1\b \nosupersub 2)
\f0\b0  If cited in the text, up to two authors are listed (separated by 
\f1\b and
\f0\b0 ) however, only the first should be cited when followed by et al.  Inclusion of the year is optional.\
E.g.: Silver and Richmond\super 4 \nosupersub (1998)\super   \nosupersub show the influence of the antibiotic.....\
Carmichel et al.\super 4\nosupersub  developed the surgical technique of.....\
\

\f1\b j) 
\f2\i Tables
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\b0 \cf0 Must be presented on a separate page, consecutively numbered (Arabic numerals) in order of their citation in the text, with a concise but informative title at the top of the table. Tables should contain margins only at the top and the bottom, deleting all other horizontal and/or vertical lines. Explanatory footnotes should be inserted under the table. \
\
k) 
\f2\i\b Figures 
\f0\i0\b0 \
Figures such as photographs, graphics, maps, etc. must be explanatory, with a high technical standard. Written permission from the patient, or legal guardian, is required for publication of recognizable persons. The title must be brief but informative and placed on top. Lines should not be inserted except at the bottom. The legends must be placed between the figure and the title. Each figure should be identified on the reverse by a number, the first author\'d5s name and an arrow indicating the top. 
\f1\b \cf2 \
\

\f0\b0 \cf0 m)
\f1\b  
\f2\i Abbreviations:
\f0\i0\b0  A limited use is permitted, the full term for which an abbreviation stands should precede its first use in the text. Abbreviations should be avoided in the title and abstract.
\f1\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\fs24 \cf0 Vancouver format:
\f0\b0\fs22 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ql\qnatural
\cf0 These instructions are based on Vancouver format, available from the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors.  Uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals.  N Engl J Med 1997;336:309-16.\

\f4\fs24  
\f0\fs22 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 Checklist:\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f0\b0\fs22 \cf0 Covering letter signed by all authors\
Copyright transfer document\
Approval by the Committee on Ethics and Research from the authors\'d5 institution\
Three printed copies and a diskette 3 1/2\'d3 (Arial 12, double-spaced, running text, without columns, and 3 cm margin) \
Title page with complete information\
Structured abstracts (except for Brief Communication and Letter to the Editor) in Portuguese, English and Spanish\
Key-words in Portuguese, English and Spanish
\f1\b \

\f0\b0 References in Vancouver style, listed according to the order of appearance\
Financial Agency, process number, year\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri170\qj

\f1\b\fs20 \cf0 Manuscripts should be sent to:\

\f0\b0 \
Prof. Dr. Fl\'87vio Adolfo Costa Vaz\
Editor Cient\'92fico\
PEDIATRIA (S\'8bo Paulo)\
Av. Dr. En\'8eas Carvalho de Aguiar, 647\
CEP  05403-900 - S\'8bo Paulo, SP, Brazil\
Tel./Fax: (0XX11) 3069-8536\
e-mail:  HYPERLINK mailto:pediatriasp@icr.hcnet.usp.br 
\f4 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 pediatriasp@icr.hcnet.usp.br
\f0 \cf0 \ulnone \
\
}